Now is gonna be a good time to kinda
go into more of the application
portion that we're going
to write with CDK.
Let's go switch over to our coding editor.
[COUGH] So
here I have like an empty directory.
There is quite literally nothing here.
But that's gonna change in a quick second.
So what we're going to do is
first validate that we have
everything installed, so
you can do aws -version, right,
to make sure you have the correct
AWS version or AWS --version.
There you go, and
we can do CDK --version as well.
So those are the versions I'm using.
So if you're gonna map it to yours,
you don't need to be on the exact build
version, but it may help with what I'm
using and certain intricacies there.
So with CDK, like I said,
it's a framework built by Amazon
to build infrastructure as code.
And CDK offers us this way to
kind of spin up our project.
If you've ever used a Create React app or
anything like that,
this is gonna be very similar with CDK.
So to get started, we're going to do
cdk init, and we're gonna do app, and
we're gonna do -- language,
and we can put go.
So before I run this command,
CDK was natively created with TypeScript.
The AWS team created CDK and
you use TypeScript to use this framework.
And fun fact,
when I wanted to first create this course,
I had CDK with TypeScript involved.
But I thought to myself,
is that really what I wanna do here?
Because it's a Go plus AWS course, not a
Go plus Typescript plus AWS course, right?
And so
we're gonna use Go to write our CDK.
So go ahead and press Enter.
You can see that on the left screen there,
we've generated a bunch new files.
I'm gonna go walk through
every single one of these,
but this basically allows us to start
rolling with our CDK application.
I wanna take a minute to
look at this message here.
So you can see here applying
project template app for go.
And it says welcome to you CDK Go project.
This is a blank project for
CDK development with Go.
The cdk.json file tells the CDK
toolkit how to execute your app.
So you're gonna check that out.
And then some useful commands and
these are pretty useful commands, right?
The first one is cdk deploy, and
this is gonna deploy our stack to
our default AWS account/region.
And this is an important note here.
It's the default, the one you have set
up on your .aws credentials files.
That's where it's all going to map, okay?
And there's a cdk diff, and this compares
the deployed stack with the current state.
So CDK has a concept of keeping
state of your deployment.
And this is super helpful in case
you deploy something incorrectly,
in case you make a mistake.
Again, like I said,
if you're doing a lightweight
infrastructure like S3 buckets,
not a big deal, not the end of the world,
you can tear that down fairly quickly.
However, there's instances where you
have to be even more cautious than
using the UI and typing things.
As programmers, like I said, we all
make mistakes, and when we create code,
we're gonna write something that
maybe we didn't intend to write.
So cdk diff is going to allow us to be
basically understand the difference of
what our preview state is
versus what we want to deploy.
And then we have cdk Synth, which
synthesizes the CloudFormation template.
Again, like I said earlier, CDK is
communicating with CloudFormation under
the hood, and it's creating our code,
written in Go, to be consumed and used
by cloud formation in the flat file kind
of semantics that CloudFormation uses.
And then there's go test,
run unit tests, okay?
So let's actually jump
into the cdk.json file.
Now, this is a large file with a bunch
of dependencies, a bunch of stuff here.
The only thing we really
care about is this app line.
This is what actually is being
executed when we run our command, and
this is a go mod download and
go run go_cdk.go.
So if you recognize that first
portion over here, the go run,
when we are running and using go,
we were writing go run main.go, right?
And essentially it's doing
the similar thing here.
The file name is go_cdk.go, but it's
executing the entry point to this file.
And I'm gonna show you this in a bit.
The next part is this go_cdk_test.go file.
It's all commented out.
We're not gonna be
actually using this file.
So we're essentially not gonna
be testing our infrastructure.
We're gonna be relying on CDK deploy
to test our infrastructure for us.
However, it's worth noting that this
is a really good example of how you
can test your infrastructure
in using tests, right?
You can have an assertion, make sure
that it is what you expect it to do.
So I do encourage you all to check it out.
Personally, testing
infrastructure is tough.
You really don't know what's
gonna happen once you deploy,
but there are levels of security you
can implement to really validate what
you're deploying is what you
want to deploy, all right?
And then we will go into the meat and
potatoes, which is this go_cdk.go file.
And this is really where we're going
to be doing a lot of our stuff.
And there's a lot of code here.
And if you've never seen CDK, it could
look pretty overwhelming, especially if
we go from our toy Go examples to what we
got going on now, it's a little different.
And you can see right away
we have some errors, right?
Our compiler doesn't know
what we're trying to get.
So the first thing I would
like you to do is, in here,
you can run the command go get.
When you run go get, it's gonna
download all those dependencies for us.
It's gonna download everything
that we need to run our code.
And you can see here the compiler is like,
okay, now I'm Gucci, now I'm fine.
So like I said earlier, anytime you
get presented with a new file in Go,
instead of kind of
navigating away yourself,
always start with this func
main in the package main.
Cuz this is essentially the source
of truth of what gets executed.
So this is where I'm gonna start.
The first thing you may notice is we
have this defer function on jsii.Close.
Like what is defer, what is jsii?
I'm gonna start with explaining
what the jsii is, or jsi.
I might be mispronouncing it, but
conceptually, it is another framework that
AWS built that allows us to use CDK with
a language that's not TypeScript, okay?
It's basically gonna transpile our
code written in Go, .NET, Python,
Java, whatever you want to
write your CDK code in,
to communicate with TypeScript
under the hood, all right?
So again, if you use TypeScript
natively to write your CDK code,
you don't have to worry about this.
But if you're going to use another
language that's supported,
you're going to have to
use the jsii framework.
And this comes kinda built in when you run
the cdk init command that we just ran.
And what this defer does here is defer
basically tells our Go code that I want
you to run this line of code, this
execution after everything else has run.
Basically, I want this to
be done at the end, okay?
Even though it's defined up here,
you could have existing processes, things
that are running in the background, and
you want your defer to execute
when those are done, okay?
And the purpose of this,
if you kind of dive into this close,
it's basically a kernel that's running and
it's processing the code that we're
writing into TypeScript for us.
So when we do this close, we're basically
saying, hey, we finished the execution,
we've synthesized our application,
we've done all the transpiling,
we've deployed it to AWS, now you
can close the kernel or the client.